# Paradata - Module 2


I had finished module 1 with a 3D model of Andy Warhol’s “Brillo Soap Pad Boxes. However, some problems I had encountered while generating the model where evident in the final piece. The repetitive nature of the sculpture’s surface confused the 3D modeling programming, resulting in the images of one entire side to be placed elsewhere, and leaving a void in their rightful place. The end result was a model that was complete from the front, but upon further inspection and manipulation, it is revealed that it is incomplete and empty on the other side. 


This got me thinking about one of my points that I made in module 1, that through his art piece, Warhol re-appropriated the meaning of the Brillo boxes themselves, changing its essential meaning and effectively erasing decades of Brillo’s pre-existing history as a well-known cleaning brand and imposing a new narrative and history. It was at this point that Brillo’s history diverged. On one hand, Brillo continued to be one of America’s most beloved cleaning brands. On the other hand, after Warhol appropriated the imagery, Brillo’s branding became more iconic and it came to represent a social and cultural critique of consumerism, a message that marked Warhol’s pop art career, and came to be associated with abstract and pop art in general. These histories seem separated from ach other, as each form is used and perceived differently depending on its context. However with my model, I feel as though there is an opportunity to combine these two narratives into one cohesive piece. 


To me, the void in my 3D model represented a piece of Brillo’s history that was missing, and so my intention was to insert representations of the original Brillo box into my model of Warhol’s Brillo Boxes, in an attempt to reclaim the Brillo Company’s history, and merge it with the history of Andy Warhol’s artwork and complete the narrative.  The juxtaposition would force the viewer to acknowledge each aspect of Brillo’s history separately, while also questioning and contemplating notions of originality and the ownership of the Brillo brand. 


When it comes to contemplations of originality and ownership, especially in art, I think the Brillo Soap Pad Boxes are the prefect case study. Andy Warhol’s sculpture, much like the rest of his pop art works, purposely re-appropriated an image or an object from mass or consumer culture. Reapplication and re-appropriation is essentially the definition of pop art and it came to define the entire genre and art movement. Without the utilization of a pre-existing object or artwork, pop art would lack the references it relies on in order to become a critique. 


But is using someone else’s design ethical, even if it used for the sake of “art” or for an entirely new purpose? Because Warhol gave the Brillo boxes a new meaning, does that make the theft of the design ok? Sam Jacob, in his article “The copy in contemporary culture is both despised and feared” sates that when it comes to artifacts, “it’s not what you steal, it’s the way that you steal it” (Jacob, 2016). Jacob implies that if your intentions are not malicious and your end goal is commendable, then it should not matter what the object is and where it originates from, but it should be appreciated for its new meaning. Applied to Warhol’s Brillo Soap Pad Boxes, it should not matter that he “stole” the artwork from James Harvey and Brillo, what should matter is the final statement that Warhol was trying to make in doing so. This understanding validates his decision to steal the box design. 


Because Andy Warhol used previously established designs and images, does that make his work less respectable in terms of “art”? David Gunkel seems to think so, in regards to music remixing at least. In his paper “Rethinking the Digital Remix: Mash‐ups and the Metaphysics of Sound Recording”, he states that “live performance is commonly distinguished from and given preference over recorded reproductions” (Gunkel, 2008). While this may be true for some musicians, I do not think that this is a general belief that can be applied to all music. This idea translated into the art world would be the equivalent of saying that only completely original and handmade art can be considered good art. It is also based on the belief that original is more valuable than any copy or replication because authenticity plays a big role in our perception of it and we give it more meaning.  This certainly cannot be an overarching and true statement, because Andy Warhol’s art was still revered and praised, despite how he “borrowed” much of his iconography from pre-established companies and celebrities. 


Still, questions of ownership, especially the legal type, do come up when contemplating Warhol’s Brillo artwork. If both claims to the Brillo box design are accepted and acknowledged, does that mean that both have an ownership of it? Jacob contemplates the notion of ownership in the context of historical artefacts as questions often arise as to who gets to claim them, the country of origin of those who discovered it. Similarly, debates over ownership of the Brillo box did arise back in the 1960s. When James Harvey, the designer of this particular Brillo box design, discovered Warhol’s new display of copies of his Brillo box, Harvey contemplated a lawsuit (Golec, 2008). Harvey was reportedly quite upset, however he could not pursue legal recourse because he did not own the rights to the design and therefore “had no legal grounds to claim and infringement on his creative property” (Golec, 2008). It was up to the Brillo Manufacturing Company to file a lawsuit, but ultimately chose not to, perhaps because they saw the value in the free publicity that Warhol offered (Golec, 2008). In this sense Brillo perhaps would perhaps agree with Jacob’s earlier statement, in that the way their product was stolen, and the end result, made the situation acceptable. Interestingly enough, the Brillo brand’s copyrights and terms of use today are quite strict, stating “no copy is made of any Company trademark or logo”. 
Forcing the images of both Brillo’s original soap box alongside Warhol’s replication really forces the viewers to contemplate the questions and ideas outlined above. If any ownership or historical narrative was lost in Warhol’s depiction of Brillo boxes, then that ownership and presence is reclaimed once they are put side by side. Similarly to the “artifact data leak” that Jacob describes in his article, forcing these two depictions together allows Brillo’s history to be reclaimed and re-assessed. 


Despite my best intentions with this remix, the full impact of the image juxtaposition that I have detailed above never quite materialized how I would have liked it to. Technical problems that plagued my model from the beginning effected my new model in the same way once again. I hope that the uploaded images can provide a sufficient understanding of my goal. Perhaps the void that is insistent on being there provides the opportunity for further reflection and understanding of the object as its new form. Furthermore, perhaps the beauty of this work is the void asks to be filled in by the viewer, with their own thoughts and questions, like Andy Warhol had intended to achieve with his art piece all along. 
	

 
