# Process Notes


### Choosing My Course of Action 

For Module 2 I knew that we were expected to translate and/or remix the digital object we created in Module 1. Initially, I thought it would be a better idea to first come up with a meaning that I would try to represent, and then brainstorm ways I could possibly accomplish this. I believe that it is important that my object first and foremost has a message and significant meaning, rather than making some sort of remix and forcing myself to find a meaning to attach to it later. While the later approach may work for some who need to look at their model in a new way in order to understand it more profoundly, I believe I already had a sound understanding of my object and I knew what I wanted to prove in this module. 

Given my reflections on the questions of originality, legal ownership, and context regarding Andy Warhol’s work, as well as the works of Sam Jacob and David Gunkel that we read (see Paradata), I thought I would make a statement by combining my 3D image of Andy Warhol’s “Brillo Soap Pad Boxes” sculpture, alongside some form or representation of the authentic Brillo box that Warhol was copying.  By juxtaposing the two images/objects, I would attempt to restate and reclaim the Brillo Company’s history and presence within Andy Warhol’s work, a history that was otherwise transformed and erased when the box became an art piece. 


### Object Searching

I decided to look on Sketchfab (as suggested) for models that I could work with and incorporate and mesh into my existing 3D model. I searched terms such as “Andy Warhol”, “pop art”, and “Brillo”. Under the search term “Brillo” I did discover and amazing model of an original, older version of the Brillo box. I thought I could perhaps insert this object into my 3D model, and the stack the boxes amongst each other, intermingling the two designs. (https://sketchfab.com/models/e050d55c5e2a4461bbc1a0d42e639c8b) Unfortunately, however, I discovered that this model was not made available to download and was not accessible through a creative commons license, therefore I could not use in in my remixed work. 

My next plan was too find an image of an old Brillo box in which I could Photoshop into my original images, overlaying one side of Warhol’s Brillo boxes with the original. I thought that the side that was missing from my first 3D model would be the perfect side to alter for two reasons. First, because I discovered that the repetitive pattern of my object’s surface confused the 3D modeling program, I thought that replacing it with a different surface would help orient the program a bit more. Secondly, the missing space in my original 3D model, to me, represented a piece of Brillo’s history that was missing, so reasserting the original Brillo box would be a way of completing the story (see Paradata for more). 


### (Re) Creation
I found an image of an older looking Brillo box online (accessible for non-commercial and person use through their copyright agreement) (https://walkerart.org/collections/artworks/yellow-brillo-box), which looked similar to Andy Warhol’s boxes from the National Gallery, except with the yellow background. I brought this image, along with my masked images I used in the previous module, into GIMP. I cut out the side of the box I wanted to use, depending on the angle of the boxes in the original photo, and I used the scaling, perspective, and shear tool in GIMP to manipulate to yellow box so that the angles and perspective matched up to the original image, making it appear as though one entire side of the sculpture was made up of yellow Brillo boxes (see .png images in “Object Files”). I did this process for all of the images I had that showed the back side. This was a tedious process, but I got the hang of the program towards the end.

Next, I inputted these manipulated images, along with the rest of my images into 3D Zephyr and began the process of generating a 3D object. I hoped that the work I had done would help the program differentiae the various sides, and place the yellow portions in the correct place, as to fill in the hole that was in my original 3D object. 

To my disappointment, the program did not pick up on any of my manipulations or additions, instead it produced a model similar to my first, with a big hole on the back side, and perhaps looked even worse. When I went to investigate why this was happening again, it showed that my first four manipulated images were not even accepted by the program and could not be “reconstructed”. I thought that perhaps the metadata of my images had been corrupted by the Photoshop manipulations, but upon more investigation I found that it seemed like most of my previous metadata was still there and the photos should have been accepted, considering the other five of my manipulated photos were accepted. 

I tried a few times to generate a proper 3D image but it seems as though I was running into some of the same problems as had I been previously. I settled with the model that has been linked in the “Object Files”. This one at least shows a small distorted portion on the yellow box just hanging onto the corner, yet still has a large void on the one side. 

In retrospect, given how my model was flawed from the beginning and I had a lot of problems creating in in module 1, I should not have expected to work out this time around and if I wanted a working model I should have done something different.  Nevertheless, I think I will still be able to get my ideas and point across with this model in addition to the images that I provided of my Photoshop manipulations. 
